In this video, I'm going to show you how
to learn anything very fast. And this is
the exact process that I use to learn
stuff for the past 14 years in business.
And more recently, I just broke the
Guinness World Record fastest selling
non-fiction book, which generated $106
million in sales in less than 3 days.
So, if you see everyone who's moving
ahead of you faster than you, and you
hate that everyone's moving ahead faster
than you, you might not be as smart as
you think you are. Now, that has good
news and bad news. The bad news is you
might not be as smart as you think you.
The good news is it's under your control
to change and you can do it quickly. So,
this is the process that I'm going to
walk through on how to learn anything
fast. So, number one is that was pretty
that was pretty that was pretty good.
Hold on. We'll use the original one.
That was pretty good. Okay. So, number
one is we have to understand what
learning is. All right. So, what is
learning? So, learning is same condition
new behavior. So that means you do
something different
in the same exact situation. So if I go
knock and then open the door and you
say, "Hi, this is Alex." And then I say,
"Close the door." Next time I want you
to say, "Welcome to Starbucks." So then
I go knock. They open the door and they
say, "Welcome to Starbucks." Same
condition. Knock-knock. New behavior.
Welcome to Starbucks. Right? To the same
degree, if I go knock after saying that
and the person says anything besides
welcome to Starbucks, that person is a
little dumber than the person who got it
on the first shot. The number of times
it takes you to change your behavior in
the same condition is a dictation of how
intelligent you are because learning is
same condition of behavior. Intelligence
is speed of learning. Intelligence is a
rate. It's a it's a question of speed.
If you think about how you describe
somebody, like he's quick. He picks he
picks things up fast. So for you,
there's a couple ways to think about
this. Way one is, oh, he picks things up
in terms of it takes fewer iterations
for that person to change their
behavior. That's good. But guess what
else you can do? If you're somebody who
didn't have that level of call it
intellect, let's say it does take you
more iterations. Guess what you do? You
can change how quickly you do them. So,
some people might take three iterations
to get something right, but they delay
the iterations once a week, another
week, another week. If you say, "I'm
going to lock in and I'm going to do
seven iterations because I'm twice as
dumb as they are, but I'm going to do
them all in one day cuz I'm going to not
let any light in my room and I'm just
going to lock in." Then guess what? You
are smarter than them because you change
your behavior faster than they did on a
timeline basis rather than an iteration
basis. So, there's two vectors you can
think of here. And this was important to
me to realize this because I so um I
went to Vanderbilt fancy school. I think
it's like top five or seven whatever in
the US right now. And when I was there,
I felt like I had below average
intelligence of the people who are in
the room. And so I was like, how am I
going to be able to beat these guys? And
so I just said, "Oh, okay. I'll just
work from the time I wake up until 9:00
p.m. every day." So that's what I did.
From 9:00 to 9:00, I was in the library
unless I was in class or I was in the
cafeteria or the gym. Those are the only
things I did. I ate, I studied, and I
worked out from 9:00 to 9. That was it.
That was all I did. And once I realized
that, I was able to move forward a lot
faster than other people, even though I
felt like they had intellectual capacity
superior to me. They might have been
able to learn things in three
iterations, but I was able to do my 10
iterations faster than they were able to
do their three. And fundamentally,
learning is same condition, new
behavior. Now, what is a skill? People
have said this a lot. A skill is a chain
of adapted behaviors. All right, that
means you learn multiple things. Same
condition, new behavior, same condition,
new behavior, same condition, new
behavior. When you chain those together,
that is a skill. So thing one,
understand what learning is. Number two,
deconstruct the skill.
So what does this mean?
So
skills are typically chunked up or
chunked down. So basketball, some people
like he is good at basketball. They're
saying he has many skills that relates
to this thing. Now within basketball,
you've got dribbling, you've got
shooting, you've got passing, right?
These are subsklls underneath of
basketball. To the same degree in
business, you can be good at business
versus good at marketing, good at sales,
good at product, good at hiring. All of
these are subsklls underneath of those
larger skills. Now, if we were to go uh
even deeper than that, we also have
generalizable skills across domains. So,
if I have great hand eye coordination, I
might be better or learn something
faster, like I will learn how to shoot
faster, but I'll also learn how to play
ping pong faster, I'll also learn how to
serve a tennis uh serve faster because I
have generalizable skills. And so, a
specific skill is a skill that does not
generalize across domains. Now, when you
have more specific skills, the am it's
more a degree to which it generalizes
rather than does it generalize or not.
So, I could have that eye hand
coordination thing, which would pretty
much generalize to anything that I use
my hands and my eyes, which is a lot of
stuff, right? But which would uh would
shooting the specific skill uh
generalize over to I don't know, chess?
Probably not. It's like, well, you're
using your eyes and hands, but not
really. It's a lot more about
decision-m, right? And so are there are
there closer ones? Would it would that
go uh better for beer pong? Probably.
That would generalize over my foul shots
versus beer pog probably just generalize
to a great degree. Not 100% but decent.
And so the reason this is important is
that people like language matters. And
so some of you will say I want to get
good at business. Alex, business is not
something you can get good at. It is a
bucketed term that has many skills
underneath of it. And since we just
defined what skills are, which is
adaptive chains in behavior, you start
something and you do three or four
things in a row that get an outcome,
right? Business has marketing. And guess
what? Marketing is also a skill that is
an adaptive chain. And so you basically
have to keep chunking down until you
finally figure out the the the skills
that you can quantify in terms of
behavior.
And so this goes all the way up and all
the way down. Like reading, writing, and
speaking are are are generalizable
skills that will apply to everything.
Learning in and of itself is a skill.
Like your ability to learn, your ability
to figure it out, right? And so
back to this little example I have here,
many of you want to learn more stuff,
but because you have not broken down the
thing you want to learn, you stare at
the screen and keep searching, hoping
that you're going to get some recipe.
But the recipe is that you have to keep
breaking it down into smaller and
smaller constituent parts so that you
can get it into an understandable unit
that you can change your behavior
within.
So I say this but that then leads to
point number three. I know right a
little open loops keep it keep it spicy
which is that we have to define success.
Now this is a bit of a trit term but
fundamentally this is what it is success
of the skill. And so we need to identify
the specific behaviors and actions that
demonstrate mastery of each subskll. So
we want to get clear in what good looks
like in practice. What does this
actually mean? Okay. So,
if I said I want to get good at foul
shots. All right. So, foul shots
probably have different parts associated
with it. There's probably going to be I
have to measure the distance and I could
probably say what percentage of my shots
did I hit within the box. Okay. What
percentage of the shots did I get within
the what percentage of them did I get in
altogether? Right? Um and then within
that I could probably say how many times
did I finish my followrough? And like I
don't know anything about basketball,
but I would be like, "Okay, am I
finishing above my head?" Because that's
where I want the followrough to be. And
where is my shoulder position? Am I
twisted? Am I straight up? Am I squared
with the basket? How many times did I do
this? And so you might hear this and be
like, "Wow, this sounds overly complex."
It's like, well, welcome to winning,
right? We have to break things down. And
you have to think about yourself in some
ways like a child because our ability to
learn gets worse over time, right? We
are less plastic but our skill at
learning. So rather our horsepower of
learning is worse but our skills at
learning can get better. All right. So
how how do we how do we reconcile this?
If our skills get better then it means
that we are better at at at being
specific about the thing that we need to
change.
Right? And if you are not specific about
those things you will wonder for a long
time why you were not getting good. So
you have to quantify to the highest
degree possible. And to be clear, you'll
start quantifying things in the
beginning and then you'll get better at
describing them. But if you do not
track, you do not care. Period. On
anything in any skill worth learning, if
you aren't tracking it, you already
demonstrate that you don't care because
there's no way for you to know if you're
getting better. Hey, and real quick, I
spent 200 hours this year just making
this one project for you, which is the
$100 million scaling road map. And I
broke up the stages of business into 10
stages. And you can identify where
you're at by simply just putting in your
business information. You go to
acquisition.com/roadmap
and it'll spit out this custom report
that tells you what the constraints are
at that current level and what you need
to do to graduate and get to the next
level. This is our gift to you
absolutely free. On the thank you page,
you can book a call with our team and
we'd love to help you uh figure that out
and ideally get past it. So that brings
me to number four, which is
ignore the black box. Okay. So, ignore
black
box. Okay.
So, let me explain what I mean by this.
A lot of times people will
try and create this narrative around
psychology, around emotionality, around
biomolecular whatever the hell
gobbledygook. And so I can say that it
is incredibly difficult to understand
why something works or why people do
things. But what we can observe is
whether something works or whether they
they did something. And so we want to
say okay we have this box.
There is an output. Instead of trying to
figure out what magic is happening
inside of this box, we just want to
focus first on the inputs. And what's
interesting about focusing on the inputs
is that the inputs themselves will give
you feedback loop that is required in
order to get better at the skill. So
basically being inefficient, sucking for
a lot of reps will get you better at not
being bad
because you will be so bad that you'll
think, "My god, I suck at this. I wonder
if I could suck less at this." And then
you'll tweak a couple things and you'll
be like, "Wow, I'm not as bad as I once
was. I'm not good." But eventually you
keep doing things that make you less bad
until eventually you look back and
you're like, you know, if you if you
less bad yourself 100 times, you're
actually pretty good. And so this is
where doing more in the beginning
without the obsession on understanding
why will get you closer to your goal.
Because so many times people say like,
"Well, I want to understand why
You want to have a narrative that
someone gives you to scratch a
psychological itch, not because it
inherently does anything. I'm going to
give you an analogy here. Imagine we do
a tennis lesson. You go to a tennis,
right? And let's say you're gripping the
racket.
In order for you to grip the racket
correctly, does the tennis pro then say,
"Hey, we should really discover why you
grip the racket incorrectly. what
different teachers didn't describe to
you the proper way to hold a racket and
let's try and understand the undermining
emotionality behind the grip that you
have. No, they're just going to get you
to grip the racket correctly. And so for
you, I would encourage you to ignore
people who try to put on all of these
wise and these psychology and the
subconsciousness and the neural
linguistic programming and all this
hollow below when like you just need to
send this email. Say these words, move
your body in this way, use your voice
like this, hold your head up, stare
straight. If someone cannot tell you
what to do with either your mouth or
your body, they are not giving you clear
directions to succeed. And so I would
encourage you to use that as your razor
is who is good at teaching and who
isn't because they will try to appeal to
some sort of mysticism that they are
tapped into the universe like like and
they'll anthropomorphize fancy word the
universe saying that it's whispering the
secrets like you can you can have it's
telling you like no there is observable
reality if you can describe that
observable reality by the way very
difficult right much easier to tell
someone to be charismatic than it is to
actually come up with these 37
activities that people then later
ascribe as charisma.
So the way to think about teaching
yourself is to look at situations
through an observational lens like a
scientist like uh like somebody who does
not understand the emotional context and
then say why do what does this person do
that gets these people to smile? Output
smile what are the inputs? The input
says this person shook that person's
hand. When did he do it? When he walked
in the room. Okay. Did he smile? Yes. So
he walked in, he smiled, he shook their
hands. How is he holding his body? Is he
like this? Is he like this? Okay. So I
need to contract my traps and my midback
so that I can stand up straight. Okay.
When I do that, people perceive me in a
different way. How do I know they
perceive me in a different way? I don't.
But what I do know is that they have a
higher likelihood of complying with my
requests.
And so this is the idea when I say like
have if you ever heard my stuff where
I'm like listen people will say like he
bought because we hit his emotional
trigger. Where is this trigger that we
can observe that it got hit? We only
know did he buy did he not buy period.
And so we just want to manage the
variables prior to the desired outcome.
And can we do more of this stuff that
increase the likelihood these things
occur,
which obviously in order for us to do
all of this stuff, we have to measure.
And so I said it before, but if you
don't track, you don't care. And so you
have to find a way to measure your
success, measure the outputs, or you
will never improve. And so what I do in
my learning process for whether I'm
learning from a guru, from a a course, a
webinar, a podcast, a anything, right,
is I look at the top 10%, the top 1% of
people first. And then I try to observe
what do they do, not what they say about
what they do. What do they do that I can
replicate? And I want to give you like
the hack of all hacks here. Most people
who are good at stuff don't know why
they're good. Michael Jordan not a very
good coach player the gun bar on no
question right and so how can we how can
we have this guy who's so good at
basketball not be good at getting other
people to be good at basketball because
this is another skill transferring
skills teaching is a different skill
than doing and so it's difficult because
when we this is why if I could probably
transfer something that has been helpful
for me is that I struggled socially
earlier and so I had to observe like why
are they cool and I I am not now to be
clear not saying I am now but I'm saying
that for them I was like these guys do
something different than me because
their outcomes are certainly different
than mine but it's that observational
muscle which is like I have to just only
describe the world by what I can see and
when you do that it becomes
significantly easier to break things
down because you say like because the
reason this is important
is because that's the only medium
through which you can communicate.
And so all of the rest of the hull
doesn't transmit the physical plane.
Now, for those of you who believe in all
of the other hull, I'm with you. Let's
go. Let's go. Manifestation,
but manifest on your own time and just
focus on doing the behaviors that
increase the probability of the of these
good outcomes occurring. Now, when
you're doing it for yourself, unless
we've observed the top 1%, top 10% and
said, "Okay, I'm going to observe the
things they do, and I'm going to
replicate them to the best of my
ability, you will suck." And it's
probably because you have not observed
all of the things they do. And so, you
have complete context to every single
one of those micro steps that they did
that made it good. Because if you look
at a good reel and a bad reel, like on
Instagram for example, let's say you
want to get better at making reels, you
might not have the awareness, the
perspective from which to make a
judgment, the observational skill to
delineate why this is different than
this. But you can say that this sucks
and this doesn't, it's a great first
step. Right? Now, if you can't even say
why does this suck versus this one, we
don't know. And we don't know why it
sucks. We know that it sucks because of
the algorithm and because of the views
and because of the likes, right? And so
we just like fundamentally all we're
doing is replicating skills that we can
observe in other people. And once we
replicate them at some point you will
start to learn from first party data
meaning you will start to learn from
yourself. Now what do I mean by that? So
some of you guys may have seen the
interview that I did with Amjod and
Replet the CEO uh the founder of Replet.
We talk about how learning works.
AI has to get trained on data. We have
to clean data and say good bad good bad
good bad over and over again. Once AI
can learn in the real world, the
feedback loops are significantly faster.
And so it's first party data. It's it
drove in the road here and then all of a
sudden someone honked and they got
feedback and it went back in the lane,
right? And so at a certain point, you'll
stop relying as much on modeling all the
people who are doing better than you at
the thing. And then you will start to do
a tremendous amount of volume. And then
from your volume, you will look at your
work. So let's say this is the volume we
did. This is all of our reps and we say,
"Okay,
what made these different from all
these? What is the difference?" Now,
there is for sure a difference because
these are the top 10%. You might only be
able to identify one or two differences.
So, you will take the things that you
find different and then you will do
another set of many repetitions where
you'll do this and then you'll have a
top 10% again. And on here
you'll get another inference of why
that's the top 10%.
And then but wait there's more. We will
then go
taking all those inferences.
And then we have our top 10% again. And
here
you get the idea. Your idea and
observation density will increase like
coats of paint. Every time you go over
it, you'll learn one more thing. But I
would say that the key to learning is
observation. Once you once you can
observe the differences between current
and ideal. And this is honestly the gap
people like I get the compliment often
that Alex breaks things down in such a
simple way. It's it's really just
[clears throat] looking at the world
through the lens of analysis of
observation and saying what is different
about these things and looking at it
almost as an autist where there is no
meaning behind anything. Just simply
this person extended his hand. That
person extended their hand. This person
nods when that person talks. When that
person stops talking, this person
doesn't nod. Why doesn't this person nod
when that person's talking? Oh, okay.
People determine that this person has
more influence. The person who nods when
the other person is talking. Okay. If I
want more influence when other people
talk, I should nod and then occasionally
interject. Yeah, sounds good. That's
interesting. Go on. Tell me more about
that. Okay, great. So then I can start
observing that. What else does this
person do? This person when he asks for
things takes a step back. This person
doesn't. Okay. So when I ask for things,
if I want to increased likelihood of
compliance, I'll take a step back. And
so it's these observational differences
which separate the people who win from
the people who won. Now of course there
are naturals. What I would determine as
a natural is someone who observed not
consciously but still learned. So I'll
explain.
Many of us we we learn a lot of our
stuff now consciously. When you were a
kid and you're a toddler, you learn from
your surroundings. You when you were 2
years old, you weren't like, "Huh, what
observation is Papa doing today. I will
I will observe him and I will model his
behavior." No. All you did, and here's a
wild thing, is that if you see someone
get rewarded, you will automatically
want to do that. What do you think
testimonials are? It's modeling.
Oh, that person is like me. They got
what I want. Their behavior was they
bought this thing. I will therefore buy
this thing, model what they did to get
what they want. That's how it works.
So step six is that we have to analyze
the differences,
analyze and iterate,
which is what this is. Look at the top
10% of people. Take their initial and
then use that as batch one. Then look at
the top 10% of your stuff. Look at the
observational differences and keep doing
it like coats of paint. Then step seven
is repetition.
So if innovation
if what is it? Uh if necessity is the
mother of innovation, repetition is the
father of skill, which is that you
repeat these steps over and over and
over again until people call you a
natural.
And so I've had I've been, you know,
blessed, if you want to use that word,
um, at being good at I I was good at
school. I was not bad at school. Some
people are like, I became an
entrepreneur cuz I sucked at school. I
was good at school. Um, I was good at
school. And when I got into business
world, I took it like a like a I took it
like curriculum, you know what I mean?
Like I wanted to learn all the language.
I wanted to learn the lingo. I wanted to
learn how it all worked. And uh what
became difficult for me was that many
people described similar things with
different words and that became very
confusing. And so I get asked a lot now
like what are my primary sources of
learning like what do I learn like where
do I where do I go for free learning now
and the honest answer is that the vast
majority of my learning is first party.
It's we do lots of stuff we look at what
worked and we do more of the stuff that
worked and then we do it again. and this
pro and then I tell you guys what I did,
right? This is the process. This is what
we do. Now, if we're going to go into a
new field, I'm going to hire experts and
I'm going to hire them so that they can
they can get me on iteration 9 as
iteration one and then I'll start at
nine and then my goal is to beat them at
that thing just by simply applying this
process with a faster feedback loop than
they have.
And so if you if and the this this is
important.
If like on a long enough time horizon
the speed of iteration is the only thing
that matters. So think about this for a
second. Your speed of iteration andor
improvement from the iteration to be
clear not just changing things for no
reason but improvement. Your rate of
improvement on a long enough time rit
independent of your starting point is
the most important rate that is required
for you to win.
The team that gets better the fastest
wins on a long enough time raet because
your rate of growth, your rate of
improvement beats everyone else. And so
you mastering this process, although it
may seem simple, being able to observe
objectively what is this person doing
differently?
Why do these videos do better? Why do
these salespeople outconvert the other
sales people? And I want to reemphasize
point four. Ignore the black box.
Do not try to explain. And like there
will be very few things that you've
probably seen on my channel where I
actually commit to the word why. The
only things that I can say that I feel
like I can say why someone does
something is because they've been
reinforced for doing it in the past.
They've been warded for doing so or
punished for doing something opposite of
that. That is all. That's the only thing
I'll commit to saying why. Everything
else I just know that. And so I have
saved an inordinate amount of time in my
development cycles by not trying to
figure out why people do things because
the reality is they don't know why they
did it either. If I were to ask you why
did you do X, Y, and Z, you probably
can't consciously answer it. Now what
you might do is you might mouth noise
something back to me because you've been
reinforced in the past for responding to
questions. But whether or not what you
say is true is irrelevant. And so this
is why when sometimes experts, people
who have great outcomes try and teach
how they got the great outcome, their
mouth words
don't actually help anyone because
they're just responding to a question.
So if you ever had someone say, so I'll
give you an example of this. So let's
say um if ever had someone say like,
"Hey, what's up?" And you say, "Uh, I'm
good." You right? You probably don't
even think about saying, "I'm good. how
about you or whatever, it's automatic,
right? And so to the same degree, people
are rewarded for answering questions a
certain way. And so is that person good
when they say I'm good you? Maybe, maybe
not. Who knows? Right? And so in that
same vein, when you ask someone, how did
you become successful? The first time
they get asked that question, they might
think a little bit and then they start
using the same answer over and over
again. Especially if people say, "Oo,
ah, so intelligent, so smart, fun."
Right? And so they get rewarded for
doing that. But that has zero bearing on
whether what they said is what they
actually did or whether that was the
reason that they were successful. And so
there's a uh there's a famous professor,
Professor Bergman from Stanford, who
said this quote that I I always think
about. He said, "It's better to fail and
know why you failed than to succeed and
not know why."
And it's because if you failed and you
know why you failed, then there's a
possibility that you can course correct
and then improve. If you succeed and
don't know why, you won't be able to
recreate it. And I'm not somebody who
believe like I like
I never want to say somebody got lucky
if they're successful. It's just not
really in my ethos. But over my career,
I always look at somebody who anybody
who's done better than me at anything,
I'm like, they've done something I
haven't done. What is it? Right? And
I'll say that honestly and I probably
can say that 99 which is pretty 99 out
of 100 which is a lot right 99 times out
of 100 when I meet somebody who's better
than me at something they've done stuff
I haven't done I can name on maybe one
hand people that I met and I was like I
actually just think they
um and the thing is is that when I say
that though it almost makes me feel sick
to say it because I'm like maybe I don't
have the ob observational skill to see
what they did well and that's still on
me because me calling someone else lucky
makes me better in zero ways.
No ways. And so when I think about that,
I would encourage you to remove luck
from your lexicon. In no way am I saying
that it doesn't affect things. Of
course, luck is, you know, probability,
chance, etc. is a reality of life. To
the same degree, your genetic hand for
whether you gain muscle or lose fat is
something that you get dealt at birth.
The question is, and so what are you
going to not work out, not eat healthy,
not try hard because your genetics are
half as good as somebody else's? No. You
still want to be cut. You still want to
be in shape. You still want all those
things. So guess what? You got the card.
That means you got to work twice as
hard. And so what?
Right? They got lucky. And so what?
You're both going to die eventually. And
five generations from now, your progyny
won't remember what you did to begin
with. And the whole point of this game
was for who you become, not what you get
along the way.
So it doesn't matter if they got lucky.
If anything, luck robs them of the
opportunity to become as good as they
possibly could because they want. And
I'll tell you a really weird story just
to show you how how messed up I am. I
remember this is I was 20 20 21
somewhere there 20. I bought a Powerball
ticket with my uh girlfriend at the time
and uh it was like when it was like a
billion dollars, something crazy, right?
Everyone got a ticket. Whatever we want.
And I remember
after we bought it that I had this or
after I bought it that I had this moment
of like sheer terror when the drawing
was happening.
And the terror that I had was that I
would win
because I thought if I win, I will never
be able to prove that I could do it.
And thank God I didn't win the Powerball
and win a billion dollars because if I
had, I don't think I would
I don't think I'd be me. And I'm very
happy with who I am. And so
I think that luck, as much as you could
say, man, that guy's lucky. Think about
how unlucky they are because they never
had the opportunity to go through the
gauntlet that you get to go through to
become the person you're going to
become.
And I think that's something
I'll rest my case on that. I think I'll
rip on that. So, hope you guys dug that.
That's how we learn anything. Um, at
least that's how I learned